---
title: Day 4 - canmore to banff to Spray Lakes West campground
---

Up and packed early, before 7. Saw Nola nbefore we rolled, said our thank yous and goodbyes. She and Paul are really awesome.

First order of business - breakfast. Rocky Mountain Bagel Cafe. Tasty, and relatively fast. 

Off to Banff. Pretty easy 12 mile ride on a paved trail that paralleled Hwy 1. The scenery was constantly spectacular. Mountains, flowers, ravines, trees, streams - even an enormous beaver dam.

In and out of Banff pretty quick. Grocery shopping at the IGA and quick stop at a bike shop to grab a hat. Met a guy from austin, up there visiting with his wife, forget his name.

Small missed turn getting to trail head but quickly corrected and onto the trail we go. Big change from the road. Constant up and down, maintaining about 5000 feet. Varying trail condition but started with hard pack, eventually turning to rougher singletrack, then full on gravel. 

Rider going back to Canmore alone after wife broke chain and caught the shuttle

Ashleigh (sp?), on the last leg of his 35 day south to north effort, tells us about a bridge out and advises us to take the fertile alternate. Definitely a GDMBR veterans raced it in 20 days last year (?), rides without a map, knows the route that well. Doesn't do social media because "I ain't got time for that shit." Part ways and continue to head south.

Arrive at Spray Lakes Campground but no water and the lake is WAY to cold to swim/bathe in. Just manage to get some water filtered before my feet went completely numb. Rinsed out the clothes and hung them on the line. 

Crazy winds, up to 50+ mph, ripping through the campgrounds on and off. Then temp drop and sprinkling on and off. Met Yuri and Petra, and their dog Rosa. Yuri brought us a couple of coronas since he saw we were on bikes. Talked for a bit. They're from Czech Republic originally but living in lake Louise last 7 years. Very nice people. Finished with a shot of Canadian whiskey. Here here. 

Bear activity [pic] in the area so we're being careful to cook smart and we'll put all our smellables into a bear box.

Thankful for: an unexpected beer from new friends.