---
title: Day 7 - Boulton Trading Post to Elkford
---

Tried to sleep a little later but still up with the sun. Packed right away but gastric distress means I need to wait until the store opens at 9 to pick up some Imodium. Up to the picnic tables by the store for breakfast, then wait around in the sun for opening time. When they finally open, no I, so I have to settle for Pepto. Hurdles cleared, we head off for Elks Pass.

Short burst of pavement before we hit the trail and then the climbing begins immediately. Mostly a pretty rideable trail punctuated with a few steep hike-a-bike sections.It keeps getting warmer and warmer and I keep shedding more and more clothes as we follow the power lines to the top. 

As the trail levels a bit we are surprised to find a picnic table, way up this remote trail, 6000+ feet up. What poor soul had to haul that up here? We stop for a quick snack - real quick, we're obviously in prime bear territory - then mount for a final push to the top. Not 100 yards farther, we follow the trail around a stand of trees and there it is, the pass. Non descript. Just a gate. No signs, no elevation marker, nothing to speak of. Goodbye Alberta, hello British Columbia. 

Now is the time for the payback for all those feet of climbing. The map shows all downhill to Elkford, about 40 miles. Should be easy.

What starts off as rideable double track heading mostly down turns too quickly onto Els River Road (?). On our way down we meet a pair riding up. one is towing a trailer absolutely loaded with gear. The other, a kid, maybe 10, riding a trailing bike. Stronger men than I.

Once we make the turn we meet Andrew Michael riding the TCT. He's taking a detour to avoid Edmonton and happens to be on this trail. We are amazed by his skinny tires but not nearly as impressed as we will be later on. 

We continue to descend and the gravel road gets rougher and rougher, to the point where its eventually not even gravel, or a road even. Just muddy heavy equipment tracks filled with very large rocks. The trail is so rough it shakes a screw out of my pannier forcing an emergency roadside repair.

Finally the road turns back to gravel but instead of consistent downhill or flat, we have a roller coaster of climbs and descents. Just as we're both out of gas we roll onto pavement and into Elkford. A small town of about 2500 but they have a motel and a restaurant and a bar. Food and a beer are required before making any lodging decisions. Fish sandwich is meh, beer is worse, but my belly is full. Motel is full but he offers his the floor in the basement George 65 a nigh. WE decline and head over to the campground.

Campground is easily nicer than the hotel. Staff is great, the place is clean, picturesque, and most importantly has warm, free showers. We settle in and decide to take the next day as a rest day for health and bike maintenance.

Mention: bears, mosquitos, crazy sunrise/sunset times

Thankful for: hot showers, good weather