---
title: Day 10 - Fernie to Eureka
---

Wet in the morning, but hustle out of camp to flee the mosquitos. To Canadian Tire for isobutane and then grocery for last canada shopping run (aka ryvita).

Breakfast on the rocks behind Tim hortons

Bust ass down the highway, keeping up a good clip. Shoulder is decent but the cattle trucks and logging trucks are unnerving. First tunnel, no button but pretty short - in and out in < 1 minute.

Break in Elko at the gas station. Weird 7-up/lemonade. Resist buying elk stick. Huge assortment of fireworks.

Eventually hit the road again, though our pace is slightly slowed. Turn south on 93 towards Roseville and the border. Starting to feel real. Traffic significantly reduced.

Glad we didn't plan to stop for anything in Grasmere as there's really no town. Keep pushing for the border.

Clouds building and temp dropping. Occasional drip but no actual rain.

Finally, the border. Take some pics then proceed to get in line with the cars. Ride up side by side, present passports, a couple of questions and bam, we're through. Anticlimactic- probably a good thing. 

Stop immediately at the bar to grab a cold drink. No cooler, so cold drink turns out to be a moose drool and an ice cream bar.

Sit in the parking lot while justin naps. He can sleep anywhere, almost instantly.

Up and moving again, we continue on 93 south to Eureka. No shoulder - eek - so riding is tense. Construction has one lane closed so we wait our turn. Talk to the flag lady a bit, quite friendly. The rain drops get more regular but the clouds don't really open up. Find out later that the GDMBR route is actually a parallel road that would have had us off the highway. Oh well.

Meet ACA tour leader with a group of 14 riders doing the Northern Tier. Chat for a bit then head in to town,. Make contact with our warm showers host - Nikki - and agree to head over after we get some food.

Vons is closed so no legendary burger for us. We see a rider at the Front Porch grill so we stop in. He's on the phone so we get a table. Meet the owner, chat for a bit, then order -Just get the famous bubba burger but its too spicy for me so i get the huckleberry burger - a bacon cheeseburger with jalapeños and huckleberry ice cream. It's quite delicious, 

The other rider is still on the phone when we=re done so we head out to Nikki's. "Directly behind the library, across the alley, through the carport, over the catwalk". Wondering what we g0t ourselves into - seems messy, junky, dirty. Nikki is super nice, warm band welcoming. We meet her 1yr old (forget name0 and eventually Jeremy her husband. Pitch tents in yard, shower, then eventually join them for beer and another dinner, chicken, beer, and salad. Do laundry in the machin that shuts off constantly fonvibrations and needs to be restarted,. Stay up past 10 talking beer (they brew), politics, general chit chat. They've traveled extensively abnd they have great stories,.

Rain starts - race out to put the rain flys on the tents. Finally hit the sack and I sleep very well,

Thankful for - not jumping to conclusions, kindness of strangers, smooth reentrry 