---
title: Day 11 - Eureka to Tuchuck Campground
---

Very slow start. Everything is wet. Hang flys etc in sun to dry while we have coffee with Nikki and Jeremy.

Justin's tent leaked so he needs to repair it, Hosts have sealant, yay!

Groceries at market. Better beer selection in this tiny town than we saw an all of canada.

Breakfast at Jax - fantastic!

Post office (gift shop detour) to send things home, plus montana bear.

USFS to find out about trail conditions. Some snow patches, apparently, but trails should be rideable.

Coin flip for trail or highway. Highway wins. Ignore coin, take trail abytway.

HA brewing. Not open but Stacey (assistant brewer) is there brewing, invites us in, gives us tour, tasters and a pint. Super knowledgeable and friendly, great ambassador for the brand. Really imnporessive little operation, would love to model dog ranch after it.

Grace Creek IPA, Spotted Bear IPA, Ceres, unnamed new beer with pear. All quite good.

Back on the road - maybe beer(s) was a bad idea,.

Climb and climb and climb. Paved and mostly gentle ascent with scenery in spades.

Pavement ends, grades get steep, climb continues. Trail deteriorates. Shaking everything up.

Finally crest at whitefish divide. Unsigned. Stark. Avalanche/rock slide location.

Down we start,. Rough trail rattles another screw from the pannier. Same as last tine, other side. Getting frustrated. Tent poles keep slipping out because the trail has ratthled the straps loose that hold it,.Losing tenmoper,

Finally arrive at tuchuck. Spe3ctacular, remote, beautiful, creek on site. Many mnosquitos - as bad as Fernie RV park, Try to wash but so cold makes my bones hurt. Spitbath. Rinse out and hang clothes. Filter water. CELICIOUS.

Cook dinner at another site, bear box the smnellable and retire to tents to avoid mosquitos. Deer come right into the camp, unfazed by us. Running out of gas. Tired of the terrible "prove yourself" trails. Going to start ad-hoc'ibng the route so as to not keep punishing ourselves.

Thankful for - serendipity, national forest campgrounds